Doc/#392 - Documentation for Data migration API (#499)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/manuals/core/versioning/production_mode.md

```console
$ taipy manage-versions --list
Version number                         Mode                   Creation date
0.1                                    Experiment (latest)    2023-01-25 12:24:19
325d0618-6f9e-459b-9597-48fa93a57a23   Experiment             2023-01-25 12:20:56
26e56e84-9e7e-4a26-93f6-443d9aa541d9   Development            2023-01-25 12:20:33

$ python main.py --production 0.1
[2023-01-25 13:00:05,333][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_example_algorithm_e25214c4-1047-4136-a5db-c1241a3ddbcf is completed.
Number of scenarios: 3

$ taipy manage-versions --list
Version number                         Mode                   Creation date
0.1                                    Production (latest)    2023-01-25 13:00:05
325d0618-6f9e-459b-9597-48fa93a57a23   Experiment             2023-01-25 12:20:56
26e56e84-9e7e-4a26-93f6-443d9aa541d9   Development            2023-01-25 12:20:33
```

> In the example above, Taipy converted the version 0.1 to a production version before running it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, Taipy converted version 0.1 to a production version before running it.
```

[2023-01-25 13:05:17,712][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_example_algorithm_ac79138a-4c3a-4560-bbd4-f4975083bf83 is completed.
Number of scenarios: 1

$ taipy manage-versions --list
Version number                         Mode                   Creation date
1.0                                    Experiment (latest)    2023-01-25 13:05:17
0.1                                    Production             2023-01-25 13:00:05
325d0618-6f9e-459b-9597-48fa93a57a23   Experiment             2023-01-25 12:20:56
26e56e84-9e7e-4a26-93f6-443d9aa541d9   Development            2023-01-25 12:20:33

$ python main.py --production
[2023-01-25 13:06:00,871][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_example_algorithm_1fcb6feb-cef1-46e0-a818-4ae2e58df57d is completed.
Number of scenarios: 5

$ taipy manage-versions --list
Version number                         Mode                   Creation date
1.0                                    Production (latest)    2023-01-25 13:06:00
0.1                                    Production             2023-01-25 13:00:05
325d0618-6f9e-459b-9597-48fa93a57a23   Experiment             2023-01-25 12:20:56
26e56e84-9e7e-4a26-93f6-443d9aa541d9   Development            2023-01-25 12:20:33
```

> As you can see, we first created an experiment version named 1.0 and there is one scenario is

Reviewer 2: "and there is one scenario is attached to it" -> "and there is one scenario attached to it"
(although, I cannot "see" that)

Author: It's shown by the `Number of scenarios: 1` line.

> As you can see, we first created an experiment version named 1.0 and there is one scenario is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we first created an experiment version named 1.0, and one scenario is attached.
```

Author: How about this?

```suggestion
As you can see, we first created an experiment version named 1.0 and create one scenario.
```

> attached to it. When listing the existing versions, we can see that 1.0 is the latest version used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When listing the existing versions, we see that 1.0 is the latest version.
```

Therefore, when running the Taipy application in production mode without providing the version name,
the latest is used and converted to production before running.

Note that once the version is converted to production, the application can access all production

> entities, including from older production versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
entities, including older versions.
```

# Remove a production version

To remove a production version, you can use the `taipy manage-versions` with the `--delete-production`

> option on the Taipy CLI and providing the version name (see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option on the Taipy CLI and provide the version name (see the
```

[Manage versions on Taipy CLI page](../../cli/manage-versions.md) for more details).

```console
$ taipy manage-versions --delete-production 0.1

> Successfully delete version 0.1 from production version list.

Reviewer 2: "from production version list" -> "from the production version list"
But that would be code...

Author: Let's update it here then I will update the code latter.

> Successfully delete version 0.1 from production version list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successfully delete version 0.1 from the production version list.
```

$ taipy manage-versions --list
Version number                         Mode                   Creation date
1.0                                    Production (latest)    2023-01-25 13:06:00
0.1                                    Experiment             2023-01-25 13:00:05
325d0618-6f9e-459b-9597-48fa93a57a23   Experiment             2023-01-25 12:20:56
26e56e84-9e7e-4a26-93f6-443d9aa541d9   Development            2023-01-25 12:20:33
```

After running the commands above, version 0.1 is an experiment version again. It is no longer a
production version.

# Change config of an existing production version

> Similar to experiment mode, to re-run an existing production version, the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the experiment mode, the application configuration must not have
```

> of the application must not have any breaking conflict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any breaking conflict to re-run an existing production version.
```

Let's assume multiple changes have been made to the configuration in `main.py`.

```python linenums="1" title="main.py"
{%
include-markdown "./code_example/main_with_multiple_changes.py"
comments=false
%}
```

```console
$ python main.py --production 1.0

> [2023-01-25 12:52:05,484][Taipy][ERROR] The version 1.0 Configuration is conflicted with the current Configuration:

Reviewer 2: "The version 1.0 Configuration is conflicted" -> "Configuration for version 1.0 conflicts"
But that would be code

Author: Let's update it here then I will update the code latter.

```suggestion
[2023-01-25 12:52:05,484][Taipy][ERROR] Configuration for version 1.0 conflicts with the current Configuration:
```

    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "path" added: input.pkl
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "path" added: output.pkl
    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    TASK "example_algorithm" has attribute "skippable" modified: False:bool -> True:bool

> Please add a new production version with migration functions or run your application with --taipy-force option to override the Config of production version 1.0.

Reviewer 2: "override the Config of production" -> "override the production configuration"
That would be code.
And you've been using "configuration" all the time so far, not "Config".

Author: True. Let's update it here then I will update the code latter.

```suggestion
Please add a new production version with migration functions or run your application with --taipy-force option to override the production Configuration of version 1.0.
```

> Please add a new production version with migration functions or run your application with --taipy-force option to override the production configuration of version 1.0.

Author: ```suggestion
Please add a new production version with migration functions.
If old entities remain compatible with the new configuration, you can also run your application with --taipy-force option to override the production configuration of version 1.0.
```

```

In the example above, when re-running production version 1.0, Taipy detects and displays all the

> changes. As shown in the message, there are 2 options to deal with these changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes. As shown in the message, there are two options to deal with these changes.
```

First, you can run the production version with the `--taipy-force` option to force Taipy to update

> the configuration of the version before re-running the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the version's configuration before re-running the application.
```

```console
$ python main.py --production 1.0 --taipy-force

> [2023-07-04 10:25:41][Taipy][ERROR] The version 1.0 Configuration is conflicted with the current Configuration:

Reviewer 2: Similarily,
"The version 1.0 Configuration is conflicted with" -> "Configuration for version 1.0 conflicts with"

Author: ```suggestion
[2023-07-04 10:25:41][Taipy][ERROR] Configuration for version 1.0 conflicts with the current Configuration:
```

    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "path" added: input.pkl
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "path" added: output.pkl
    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    TASK "example_algorithm" has attribute "skippable" modified: False:bool -> True:bool

> [2023-07-04 10:25:41][Taipy][WARNING] Option --taipy-force is detected, overriding the configuration of version 1.0 ...

Reviewer 2: "--taipy-force is detected" -> "--taipy-force was detected"
Code.

Author: I'm not sure about using past tense here. Can you explain a bit more?

[2023-07-04 10:25:41][Taipy][INFO] Version 1.0 is already a production version.
[2023-07-04 10:25:41][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_example_algorithm_7a54227c-159d-4768-99c3-8c19c84a2e61 is completed.
```

As you can see, the application is run successfully after updating the configuration.

!!! Warning

    By forcing the configuration update, you must be aware that old entities instantiated before
    the configuration change may not be compatible.

> Second, to avoid overriding the Configuration of that production version, you can create a new

Reviewer 2: "Configuration" why a capital?

Author: This probably a systematic error. Let me fix those

production version and add migration functions to make entities from all production versions
compatible with each other. Let's dive deeper into this topic in the next section.

# Production version with migration functions

> First, without overriding the Configuration of version 1.0, let's use the [scenario selector](../../gui/corelements/scenario_selector.md) to create a scenario for June.

Reviewer 2: "Configuration" why a capital?

![June scenario in production version 1.0](pic/scenario_selector_for_production_ver1.png)

> Let's take a close look at the attributes of the data nodes and the task. The scopes of the data nodes are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's closely examine the attributes of the data nodes and the task. The scopes of the data nodes are
```

`Scope.SCENARIO`, the skippable attribute of the task is False, and the versions of all entities are 1.0.
Keep this in mind for later comparison.

With the newly updated configuration, let's create a new production version named 2.0.

```console
$ python main.py --production 2.0
[2023-07-04 11:35:31][Taipy][INFO] There is no migration function from production version "1.0" to version "2.0".
[2023-07-04 11:35:31][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_example_algorithm_e3f72ec8-86b1-40c7-a382-6f63f04e8b7b is completed.
```

> Recall that in the production environment, Taipy can access all entities attached to any production version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall that Taipy can access all entities attached to any production version in the production environment.
```

However, since there are conflicting changes between version 1.0 and 2.0, accessing an entity from version 1.0
may lead to inconsistent behavior.

It is recommended that when there are conflicting changes between production versions, migration functions should

> also be provided. These functions accept an entity as the input, and should return the newly migrated entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also be provided. These functions accept an entity as the input and should return the newly migrated entity.
```

Let's create migration functions to make entities from production version 1.0 compatible with 2.0.

```python
def migrate_datanode_scope(datanode):
    datanode.scope = Scope.GLOBAL
    return datanode

def migrate_skippable_task(task):
    task.skippable = True
    return task
```

In this example, we have 2 migration functions, `migrate_datanode_scope()` and `migrate_skippable_task()`.
Notice that between version 1.0 and 2.0, each data node has its path and scope changed. However, we only migrate
the scope because we want to keep the path pointing to the correct pickle file. You can freely modify the
migration function as you wish, but be careful with how it may affect the application.

To register the migration functions to Taipy, use the `Config.add_migration_function()^` method.
This method requires the following parameters.

- ***target_version*** represents the production version that entities are migrated to.

- ***config*** indicates the configuration or the id of the config that needs to migrate.

- ***migration_fct*** represents the migration function that takes an entity as input and returns a new entity

>   that is compatible with the target production version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  compatible with the target production version.
```

```python
Config.add_migration_function(
    target_version="2.0",
    config="input",
    migration_fct=migrate_datanode_scope,
)

Config.add_migration_function(
    target_version="2.0",
    config="output",
    migration_fct=migrate_datanode_scope,
)

Config.add_migration_function(
    target_version="2.0",
    config="example_algorithm",
    migration_fct=migrate_skippable_task,
)
```

> After registering the migration functions, we can run the application again. Let's use the [scenario selector](../../gui/corelements/scenario_selector.md) to create a scenario for July.

Reviewer 2: "create a scenario for July." -> "create a scenario for the month of July:"

Author: ```suggestion
After registering the migration functions, we can rerun the application. Let's use the [scenario selector](../../gui/corelements/scenario_selector.md) to create a scenario for the month of July:
```

> After registering the migration functions, we can run the application again. Let's use the [scenario selector](../../gui/corelements/scenario_selector.md) to create a scenario for July.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After registering the migration functions, we can rerun the application. Let's use the [scenario selector](../../gui/corelements/scenario_selector.md) to create a scenario for July.
```

![July scenario in production version 2.0](pic/scenario_selector_for_production_ver2.png)

> Next, let's access June scenario.

Reviewer 2: "access June scenario." -> "access the scenario for the month of June:"

Author: ```suggestion
Next, let's access the scenario for the month of June:
```

![Migrated June scenario in production version 1.0](pic/scenario_selector_for_production_ver1_migrated.png)

> We can see that the scope of the data nodes are updated to `GLOBAL`, and the skippable attribute of the task is

Reviewer 2: "the data nodes are updated" -> "the data nodes is updated"

Author: It is plural, no? Or we need to use "is" instead of "are" because of the "scope"?
Or should it be "scopes"?

> We can see that the scope of the data nodes are updated to `GLOBAL`, and the skippable attribute of the task is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can see that the scope of the data nodes is updated to `GLOBAL`, and the skippable attribute of the task is
```

Author: It is plural, no? Or we need to use "is" instead of "are" because of the "scope"?
Or should it be "scopes"?

Reviewer: Yes, if we edit as "scopes" then we can use "are". For example we can edit is as: "We can see that the data node scopes are updated..."

Author: ```suggestion
We can see that the data node scopes are updated to `GLOBAL`, and the skippable attribute of the task is
```

also updated to True. Notice that since we don't migrate the path of the data nodes, the path of the data nodes

> are still pointing to the pickle files of June scenario. And finally, all entities are now version 2.0 and compatible

Reviewer 2: "of June scenario" -> "of the scenario for the month of June" (or "of the June scenario" which is less clear).

> are still pointing to the pickle files of June scenario. And finally, all entities are now version 2.0 and compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
still points to the pickle files of the June scenario. And finally, all entities are now version 2.0 and compatible
```

Note that once the version is converted to production, the application can access all production
entities, including from older production versions.

# Change config of an existing production version

Similar to experiment mode, to re-run an existing production version, the configuration

> of the application must be the same. There must be no breaking change.

Reviewer 3: must be the same or must not have breaking conflicts? This can be confusing.

Let's assume multiple changes have been made to the configuration in `main.py`.

```python linenums="1" title="main.py"
{%
include-markdown "./code_example/main_with_multiple_changes.py"
comments=false
%}
```

```console
$ python main.py --production 2.0
[2023-01-25 12:52:05,484][Taipy][ERROR] The version 2.0 Configuration is conflicted with the current Configuration:
    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "path" added: input.pkl
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "path" added: output.pkl
    DATA_NODE "input" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    DATA_NODE "output" has attribute "scope" modified: SCENARIO:SCOPE -> GLOBAL:SCOPE
    TASK "my_print_algo" has attribute "skippable" modified: False:bool -> True:bool

> Please add a new production version with migration functions or run your application with --taipy-force option to override the Config of production version 2.0.

Reviewer 3: I believe we should change this message. It is not dissuasive enough to force a run. Something like:

"Please add a new production version with migration functions.
You can also run your application with `--taipy-force` option to override the Config of production version 2.0. Nevertheless, be cautious. You must ensure the entities created from a previous Config remains compatible with the new Config."

What do you think?

Of course this is not on taipy-doc...

Author: I think it is more clear but too wordy. Not sure though

Author: What do you think about improving the documentation of the `--taipy-force`?

I think it is better than explain it here.

Reviewer 3: Independently from improving `--taipy-force` option documentation, I believe it's important to let the user know in the logs that it is not just an alternative to implement a migration function. Some prerequisites must be ensured before using `--taipy-force`.
Maybe the following message is simpler than the previous one.

"Please add a new production version with migration functions.
If old entities are ensured to remain compatible with the new Config, you can also run your application with `--taipy-force` option to override the Config of production version 2.0."

Author: I think the new message is much more reasonable. Thank you @jrobinAV.

I will modify both the doc and the code.
